doc: add events (#135)
open-feature/openfeature.dev: docs/reference/concepts/05-events.md

---
sidebar_position: 1
id: events
---

# Events

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

> Events allow enable the ability to react to state changes in the provider or underlying flag management system.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Events allow  _application authors_ to add logic that reacts to state changes exposed by the provider or underlying flag management system.
```

Author: I think events are helpful not to just application authors, so I didn't mention a particular persona.

Reviewer: Sure, that's fine but the `Events allow enable` section needs to be rephrased.

Author: Oh, right. Thanks.

These include changes in provider readiness, error status, or perhaps most interestingly, flag configuration changes.

## Event Handlers

Event handlers can be attached to a `client` or to the global API object, for any [provider event type](/specification/types#provider-events).
Handlers attached to the global API object run when _any_ provider emits the associated events; this makes global handlers ideal for configuration troubleshooting, monitoring and other cross-cutting concerns.

> Handlers attached to a client will run only when the provider bound with that client emits the associated event; this makes `client` handlers the ideal for reacting to flag-state changes in an application domain logic.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Handlers attached to a client will run only when the provider bound with that client emits the associated event; this makes `client` handlers ideal for reacting to flag-state changes in an application domain logic.
```

> Handlers are passed an [events details](/specification/types#event-details) structure, which contains data about the event, including a list of keys that have changed (if applicable and available).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Handlers are passed an [event details](/specification/types#event-details) structure, which contains data about the event, including a list of keys that have changed (if applicable and available).
```

<!-- TODO: add more languages when completed -->
<Tabs groupId="code">
<TabItem value="js" label="TypeScript">

```ts
// attach a `PROVIDER_READY` handler
client.addHandler(ProviderEvents.Ready, () => {
  // do something when the provider is ready
});

// attach a `PROVIDER_CONFIGURATION_CHANGED` handler

> client.addHandler(ProviderEvents.ConfigurationChanged, () => {

Reviewer: Should the example include event details?

Author: definitely, I'll add that.

Author: Added

  // do something when flags settings have changed
});

// attach a `PROVIDER_ERROR` handler
client.addHandler(ProviderEvents.Error, () => {
  // do something when the provider has entered an error state
});

// attach a `PROVIDER_STALE` handler
client.addHandler(ProviderEvents.Stale, () => {
  // do something when the provider has gone stale
});

> ```

Reviewer 2: Should we maybe add one example for the global API here?
After the section before, I kind of expect to see both, client and api.

Author: good idea, done.

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Event Types

See [event types](/specification/types#provider-events) specification.

### PROVIDER_READY

The provider is ready to perform flag evaluations.

> Authors may not wish to attempt to evaluate flags until the provider has properly established a connection to the management system.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
_Application authors_ may want to wait to evaluate flags until the provider has fully started.
```

I was just trying to simplify the language but it's completely up to you.

Author: I think yours is better.

> In this case, authors can await the `PROVIDER_READY` event before evaluating any flags.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In that case, they can await the `PROVIDER_READY` event before evaluating any flags.
```

> This can be especially useful for hiding views or otherwise deferring evaluation until associated flags can be resolved accurately.

Reviewer: What do you mean by "hiding views"?

Author: Hiding UI components, for example, showing  a loader.

Reviewer: Or "hiding UI elements". Something like that would clear things up for me.

Author: I like that.
